Abstract
Bone is a frequent site of metastases and typically indicates a short-term prognosis in cancer patients. Once cancer has spread to the bones it can rarely be cured, but often it can still be treated to slow its growth. The majority of skeletal metastases are due to breast and prostate cancer. Bone metastasis is actually much more common than primary bone cancers, especially in adults. The diagnosis is based on signs, symptoms and imaging. New classes of drugs and new interventions are given a better quality of life to these patients and improved the expectancy of life. It is necessary a multidisciplinary approach to treat patients with bone metastasis. In this paper we review the types, clinical approach and treatment of bone metastases.

Introduction
Metastasize is a process that involves loss of intercellular cohesion, cell migration, angiogenesis, access to systemic circulation, survival in circulation, evasion of local immune responses, and growth at distant organs. Bone is the third most frequent site of metastasis, behind lung and liver. Prostate and breast cancer (BC) are responsible for the majority of the skeletal metastases (up to 70%). This reflects both the high incidence and relatively long clinical course of these tumors. The overall incidence of bone metastasis is not known. The relative incidence of bone metastasis by type of tumor, in patients with advanced metastatic disease, is: 65-75% in BC; 65-75% in prostate; 60% in thyroid; 30-40% in lung; 40% in bladder; 20-25% in renal cell carcinoma and 14-45% in melanoma. The median-survival from diagnosis of bone metastasis is: 6 months in melanoma; 6-7 months in lung; 6-9 months in bladder; 12 months in renal cells carcinoma; 12-53 months in prostate; 19-25 months in BC and 48 months in thyroid. Bone metastases are a major cause for morbidity, characterized by severe pain, impaired mobility, pathologic fractures, spinal cord compression, bone marrow aplasia and hypercalcemia.

Types of bone metastasis
Bone metastasis are classified as osteolytic, osteoblastic or mixed, according to the primary mechanism of interference with normal bone remodeling. Osteolytic metastasis is characterized by destruction of normal bone, present in multiple myeloma (MM), renal cell carcinoma, melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer, non-hodgkin lymphoma, thyroid cancer or langerhans-cell histiocytosis. The great majority of BC produces osteolytic metastases. This bone destruction is primarily mediated by osteoclasts and not a direct effect of tumor cells. Parathyroid hormone-related peptide (PTHrP) has a major role in the development of osteolytic lesions. The receptor activator of NF-kappaB ligand (RANKL) play a critical role in the formation of osteoclasts by stimulating precursor cells when binds to receptor activator of NF-kappaB (RANK) on the cell membrane of osteoclast precursors. Osteoblastic (or sclerotic) metastasis is characterized by deposition of new bone, present in prostate cancer, carcinoid, small cell lung cancer, Hodgkin lymphoma or medulloblastoma. The mechanisms of osteoblastic metastases are still poorly understood. In some instances the new bone formation is not necessarily preceded by bone resorption. Transforming growth factor, bone morphogenic proteins (BMP) and endothelin-1 are associated with osteoblast generation. Prostate-specific antigen (PSA), can cleave PTHrP, allowing the osteoblastic reaction predominate by decreasing bone reabsorption. Core binding factor alpha1 (Cbfa1), also known as Runx-2, is linked to osteoblast differentiation. Mixed metastasis occurs if a patient has both osteolytic and osteoblastic lesions, or if an individual metastasis has both osteolytic and osteoblastic components, present in BC, gastrointestinal cancers and squamous cancers. Although BC gives origin predominantly to osteolytic lesions, 15-20% of women have osteoblastic lesions, or both type of lesions.

Mechanisms of metastases to bone
Bone metastasis are almost always multiple and involve axial skeleton. It has been suggested that this distribution might be in relation to the hematopoietically active red bone marrow. There exists a paravertebral network that may play a role in the development of bone metastasis. This theory is supported by the high incidence of bone metastases without corresponding lesions in the lung. In addition, the microenvironment must be favorable for tumor cell survival. Once the tumor cell is in circulation, it needs vascular adhesion and extravasation: the cell interacts with endothelium in order to extravasate and stay in a specific tissue. Chemoattractive and adhesion molecules play a fundamental role in this selective retention of cancer cells in bone marrow vasculature. Cancer cells use equivalent molecules to vascular cell adhesion molecules (VCAM) and E-selectin to adhere to endothelium. Chemokines, integrins, osteopontin, bone sialoprotein and type I collagen are critical for organ colonization by cancer cells. Examples of such interactions are: expression of CXCR4 by neuroblastoma tumors that mediates the attachment to stromal-cell derived factor 1 in bone (SDF-1 or CXCL12); expression of RANK by BC that mediates the attachment to RANKL in bone; expression of sialoprotein by non-small cell lung cancer that facilitate binding to collagen type I in bone. Micro-environmental support: The seed-and-soil hypothesis tells us that the microenvironment provides a fertile ground (the soil), for the survival and growth of metastatic cancer cells (the seed). The bone formation and reabsorption release and activate survival and growth promoting factors that may contribute to bone metastases development. Epithelial-Mesenchymal transition: Normal cell can lose their epithelial features and acquire mesenchymal characteristics. This process is called Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition, and enables epithelial cells to migrate to a new environment. This occurs mainly during embryogenesis, but in cancer cells this process confers the invasive phenotype.

Clinical aspects
The median survival of patients after first bone metastasis by BC is 20 months. This is in marked contrast to those with metastases of BC in the liver, 3 months, or with bone metastases from non-small cell lung cancer, 6 months. In prostate cancer, men with a good performance status and bone only disease, affecting predominantly the axial skeleton, have a median duration of disease control after androgen blockade of 4 years and a median survival of 53 months. This is in marked contrast to those with visceral disease with a median survival of 30 months and 12 months with visceral disease and poor performance status. Bone metastases are a major cause for morbidity, characterized by severe pain, impaired mobility, pathologic fractures, spinal cord compression, bone marrow aplasia and hypercalcemia. Hypercalcaemia is the most common metabolic complication of malignant disease. It is frequent in squamous-cell carcinomas of the lung, BC and kidney, MM and lymphoma. The four main contributes are: focal osteolysis by tumor cells, generalized osteolysis by humoral factors secreted by the tumor, increased renal tubular reabsorption of calcium and impaired renal glomerular function. Moderate to severe hypercalcaemia, if left untreated, causes a number of unpleasant symptoms related to dysfunction of the gastrointestinal tract, kidneys and central nervous systems such as constipation, polyuria, polydipsia and fatigue. In final stages, hypercalcemia can lead to cardiac arrhythmias and acute renal failure. Pathologic fractures occur in 10-30% of all cancer patients, with proximal parts of the long bones being the most frequent fracture site, and the femur accounting for over half of all cases. Rib fractures and vertebral collapses are also very common, which can lead to kyphoscoliosis and a degree of restrictive lung disease. BC accounts for 60% of the pathologic fractures and lung cancer for only 10% of cases. Bone pain is the most common type of pain from cancer, is poorly localized, worse at night, not necessarily relieve with sleep or lying down. In cancer patients, development of bone pain usually is considered to be highly suggestive of bone metastases. The pain associated with bone metastasis could be either of inflammatory or mechanical origin.

Diagnosis and Imaging
Bone scintigraphy is highly sensitive but usually has a low specificity. Sensitivity of 99Tc scintigraphy has been reported to range from 62 to 89%, with a false-positive rate as high as 40%. It is more sensitive and more specific than plain films and computed tomography (CT) scans, while magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is superior in evaluating vertebral metastases. It provides information on osteoblastic activity and skeletal vascularity, with preferential uptake of tracer at sites of active bone formation that reflects the metabolic reaction of bone to the disease process, whether neoplastic, traumatic or inflammatory. Radiographs are a fast, cheap, and readily available technique for evaluating bone metastases. Plain radiography should be the first test in the evaluation of bone pain. A plain radiography is very specific but sensitivity is low (44-50%) because metastatic lesions may not appear on X-ray at initial stages. The sensitivity of CT for the diagnosis of bone metastases ranges from 71-100%. CT produces images with excellent soft tissue and contrast resolution. Bone destruction and sclerotic deposits are usually clearly shown and any soft tissue extension of bone metastases is easily visualized. MRI is required to diagnose spinal cord compression and is useful in imaging bone marrow to assess involvement by the tumor. The sensitivity ranges from 82-100% and its specificity ranges from 73-100%. Positron emission tomography (PET) detects the presence of tumor directly by quantifying metabolic activity. It is superior to bone scintigraphy in the detection of bone metastases from lung cancer (sensitivity 92%, specificity 99%), and from BC (sensitivity 95%, specificity 94%).

Treatment
Treatment decisions depend on several parameters, for example, if bone disease is localized or widespread, if there is evidence of extraskeletal metastases, the kind of cancer and his features, prior treatment history and disease response, the symptoms and the general state of health. Treatments can often shrink or slow the growth of bone metastases and can help with the symptoms they are causing but, they are not curative. Bisphosphonates are analogues of pyrophosphate, a natural inhibitor of bone demineralization. Bisphosphonates bind avidly to exposed bone mineral around resorbing osteoclast and this leads to very high local concentrations of product in the resorption lacunae. Then, bisphosphonates are internalized by the osteoclast causing disruption of the chemical process involved in bone resorption. Bisphosphonates also cause osteoclast apoptosis and some studies suggest that they may also have direct apoptotic effects on tumour cells. In oncology, bisphosphonates are the standard treatment for tumour-induced hypercalcaemia and a new form of therapy for bone metastasis. With intravenous bisphosphonates and rehydration, 70-90% of patients will achieve normocalcaemia. There are three generations of bisphosphonates: 1st generation, etidronate, clodronate, tiludronate; 2nd generation, pamidronate, alendronate, ibandronate; 3rd generation, risedronate, zoledronic acid. Zoledronic acid is the newer bisphosphonate approved for MM, lung, prostate and BC with bone metastasis. It is 100-times more effective than pamidronate. Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody that inhibits the RANKL, preventing the development of osteoclasts. It can help prevent or delay problems like fractures in patients with bone metastases at least as well as zoledronate, and is safe to give to patients with impaired renal function. Dosing ranges from 60 mg every 6 months in order to preserve bone density in postmenopausal women to 120 mg every 4 weeks for malignant disease metastatic to the bone. External radiotherapy provides excellent palliation for localized metastatic bone pain. Pain relief usually occurs rapidly, with more than 50% of responders showing benefit within 1-2 weeks. Indications for radiotherapy for bone metastases include pain, risk for pathologic fracture and neurological complications arising from spinal cord compression. Radiation therapy can be delivered using three forms of treatment: local-field radiation therapy, wide-field radiation therapy and radionuclide therapy. The local-field radiation therapy is considered the conventional treatment of bone metastases. It treats the involved bone and yields a pain relief rate of 80-90%. Several randomized trials have indicated that a single fraction of 8Gy is adequate for pain relief. Radionuclide therapy is the systemic use of radioisotopes for bone pain. Radiopharmaceuticals like strontium-89, rhenium-186 or samarium-153, have been shown to be effective in palliation of metastatic bone pain. Radium-223, calcium mimetic and alpha emitter that selectively binds to areas of increased bone turnover in bone metastases. It bounds into newly formed bone stroma and the radiation induces mainly double-stranded DNA breaks that result in a potent and highly localized cytotoxic effect. Radium-223 significantly prolonged overall survival in patients who had castration-resistant prostate cancer and bone metastases, with a 30% reduction in the risk of death. Ablation is the procedure where a needle or probe is introduced into a tumor and using heat, cold or a chemical, the tumor is destroyed. The most common types of ablation are radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and cryoablation. Surgery is only indicated for fractures of long bones and hip joints, in spinal cord involvement, or peripheral nerve compression. Stereotactic radiosurgery has emerged as a new treatment option for the multidisciplinary management of metastases located within or adjacent to vertebral bodies and the spinal cord.

Conclusions
The presence of bone metastases is a sign of disseminated disease and foretells a short-term prognosis in cancer patients. The bone metastases have an important impact on patient's quality of life so, new strategies are necessary to prevent skeletal disease and palliate established skeletal events. A multidisciplinary approach should include medical oncologist, radiotherapist, pain control team, intervention radiologist, endocrinologist, orthopedic surgeon and psychologist. More studies are necessary to elucidate the interaction between tumor cell and bone microenvironment to reach new therapeutic interventions.
